Have you ever seen a five year old boy kid not being able to talk to another
five year old girl kid, just because she's a girl. We don't see it. And kids of
one gender don't see kids of the other gender as different. They play with each
other alike. Then something drifts the two gender so apart that it becomes
almost impossible for some people to see the other gender in a non sexual/romantic context.

It all starts from our school. In my primary school girls and boys used to sit
together and we used to talk and play with both girls and boys alike. When I got
transfered to a middle school, in a different city, there different rows for
boys and girls. Now forget about playing it was hard to talk to the female
counter part without being judged. By seventh and eight class the situation was
that if you consistenly to a girl people(other kids) used to think that you are
trying to hit on her. There there will be gossips all across the school and
you will got teased by your friends all day. So, even if you don't see her in
a sexual/romantic context you are forced to do so. Some learn to not to give
a shit about the what others says and many other bows to the social and peer
pressure. This creates a large gap between the two sections of the society that
is males and females. They create different worlds for themselves and rarely
the other counterpart knows the internals of the other. The two worlds are
treated differently and they are trained to have diffrent cultural expections
from themselves and the others.

This gender gap harms the society to a great extent. Why we
see so few girl programmers or such a high male to female students ration on IIT campus.
I belive the reason for such gender discripancy is less of the intresic ability
of a girl and boy and more of the diffrences in the girl culture and boy culture.
I think the major reason for sexual violence is the lack of empathy between the
two genders. It is important that one gender has the ability to see the things
other gender does. It is important that the different genders know their
similarities and acknowledge their differences. For that they need to talk,
interact and collabrate. The institutions that can ensure that are school and
to a lesser extent colleges.
